We've reached an inflection point or at that point in the course where the majority of our app is now
running, but we need to supply it with data.
So far, we've been working with mock data, and although it has been great, it doesn't really allow
us to create the full interactivity that a real app would give us.
And so I have supplied data over here for four different cities Antwerp's, Chicago, San Francisco
and Toronto.
And this data closely mimics what Google would return us if we were to implement the Google Places API.
The shape is very close.
The data, however, has been massaged in order to resemble what data would look like if it came back
from Google.
But it isn't the actual data that Google sends us back.
Now, this is because we want to eventually implement Google API later in the course.
But for now, we need to implement some shape of information that's going to give us the closest representation
of what Google would give us so that we can just at the end flip the switch.
And by flip the switch, I mean, create a request and the rest of our code will just work end to end
so we can turn our app into Mac mode and a non Mac mode in order to be able to develop without having
data available.
Or if you're off of the grid and you don't have Internet and you want to refine some UI.
So that is what we're going to be looking at here.
And that is very important in terms of the longevity of our app and the ability to kind of build out
features and functionality without Internet or connectivity or just putting our app in a mock mode.
In general, this is a very important step.
Even if you're in the industry, if you're in the industry, the software industry, you come across
these points and building an application where you may not have availability of an API or you may not
have availability of a service.
And so you need to kind of work around that.
And so mocking the responses is a good way of going about it.
And so oftentimes what you'll see is people will hook them up directly into the features that feels
right.
Right.
Like in the restaurant screen.
We just do, you know, the API call directly to Google or whatnot?
Well, I like to push I call it pushing it to the edge of the application.
And so what we're basically going to do here is we're going to make sure that any time we're trying
to get information from somewhere, it's in the same place.
So we're going to be isolating how we talk to servers.
And the way that we do that is through a pattern called services.
So we're going to create a folder called services.
And this folder is going to be where all of our logic around talking to external services happen, whether
it be Google, whether it be Facebook, whether it be anything else, Firebase or or whatnot, here
is where we are going to be talking to servers.
So in services, what we want to do is we want to create a new folder and the services naming them is
also kind of specific to what you're trying to achieve.
So one of the services that we have is the restaurant service.
Right.
And its main purpose is to get us restaurants.
And so in that restaurant service, that's where we're going to put a new folder and we're going to
call that mock.
So this is going to be our mock restaurants.
So what we also need in here is.
Three things we need.
Thought, service, thought.
Yes, and we need restaurants.
Thought, context, thought.
Jazz, these are the two files, so we're going to have our mock's our context and our service, and
these are going to serve us to get information.
So first of all, let's take our moch information and put it in the mock folder.
And so by doing that, we now have all of our mock information available to us.
This mock information is coming from these files and the marks are structured by longitude and latitude.
So based on position on the map is how we will retrieve the specific information for these.
And we have mock images for the restaurants that we will randomly select.
So with this mock information, we're ready to set up four different cities for us to request restaurants
from.
And all we need to do now is build out the service and the context.
Now, what do I mean by context?
Well, by context, I mean react context.
So every service is going to be linked to a react context.
And as I said before, context provides a way to pass data through the componentry without having to
pass props down manually at every level.
So we're going to use context to basically allow us to, first of all, fetch the information that we
need to fetch.
Right, getting the information we need to get, but then also giving the ability for any level of the
application to consume that information.
And in this case, the information we're going to retrieve are the restaurants from these specific cities.
And then we're going to be able to pass it around through context, so you have to think of it this
way, right?
If we looked at it from a perspective of like the actual implementation, we would have the cloud over
here.
Right.
This is a cloud.
Let's say this was Google.
Right.
And our application is all the way over here.
Well, now we're seeing for application to talk, we're going to create this services layer right service,
this is an escort service and this is going to basically be what's going back and forth with the cloud
with Google.
Now, the service right now is using Mock's in order to go back to the application.
Right.
So the application talks to the service, the service talks to Google.
In this case, it's actually going to the mosques and the service returns information to the application
to visually represent everything.
OK, now the way that the app gets the information from the service is the app is using react and react
has something called context, right context.
The service is feeding the information to the context that is actually feeding it to the application.
So this isn't a direct relationship.
The service gives the information to the context and the context gives the information to the app for
the visualization.
And we're using context because the app can reference through react context globally.
So let's see how that implementation works end to end.